IR-7 INCIDENT RESPONSE ASSISTANCE
Control:  Provide an incident response support resource, integral to the organizational incident
response capability, that offers advice and assistance to users of the system for the handling and
reporting of incidents.
Discussion:  Incident response support resources provided by organizations include help desks,
assistance groups, automated ticketing systems to open and track incident response tickets, and
access to forensics services or consumer redress services, when required.
Related Controls:  AT-2, AT-3, IR-4, IR-6, IR-8, PM-22, PM-26, SA-9, SI-18.
Control Enhancements:
|(1) INCIDENT RESPONSE ASSISTANCE  AUTOMATION SUPPORT FOR AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION AND
T SUPPORT
Assignment: Increase the availability of incident response information and support using [p
borganization-defined automated mechanisms].
Discussion:  Automated mechanisms can provide a push or pull capability for users to obtain
incident response assistance. For example, individuals may have access to a website to query n
the assistance capability, or the assistance capability can proactively send incident response
information to users (general distribution or targeted) as part of increasing understanding of a
lacurrent response capabilities and support.
Related Controls:  None.
| (2) INCIDENT RESPONSE ASSISTANCE  COORDINATION WITH EXTERNAL PROVIDERSo
(a)Establish a direct, cooperative relationship between its incident response capability  h
rand external providers of system protection capability; and g
f(b)Identify organizational incident response team members to the external providers.  r
Discussion:  External providers of a system protection capability include the Computer :
tNetwork Defense program within the U.S. Department of Defense. External providers help to
protect, monitor, analyze, detect, and respond to unauthorized activity within organizational :
information systems and networks. It may be beneficial to have agreements in place with
oexternal providers to clarify the roles and responsibilities of each party before an incident
occurs. /
6Related Controls:  None.
References:  [OMB A-130], [IR 7559]. /