INTRODUCTION
THE NEED TO PROTECT INFORMATION, SYSTEMS, ORGANIZATIONS, AND INDIVIDUALS
1Modern information systems can include a variety of computing platforms (e.g., industrial
control systems, general purpose computing systems, cyber-physical systems, super computers,
weapons systems, communications systems, environmental control systems, medical devices,
embedded devices, sensors, and mobile devices such as smart phones and tablets). These
platforms all share a common foundation—computers with complex hardware, software and
firmware providing a capability that supports the essential mission and business functions of
2h  organizations.
bSecurity controls are the safeguards or countermeasures employed within a system or an
aorganization to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system and its
3n risk. Privacy controls are the administrative, information and to manage information security
technical, and physical safeguards employed within a system or an organization to manage
a4privacy risks and to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements. Security and
bprivacy controls are selected and implemented to satisfy security and privacy requirements
levied on a system or organization. Security and privacy requirements are derived from f
applicable laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, and mission needs
to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information processed, stored, or c
transmitted and to manage risks to individual privacy.
o5 are important tasks The selection, design, and implementation of security and privacy controls m
:6 that have significant implications for the operations and assets of organizations as well as the
pwelfare of individuals and the Nation. Organizations should answer several key questions when
/addressing information security and privacy controls:
•What security and privacy controls are needed to satisfy security and privacy requirements  r
1and to adequately manage mission/business risks or risks to individuals?
•Have the selected controls been implemented or is there a plan in place to do so?  2
•What is the required level of assurance (i.e., grounds for confidence) that the selected  I
7 controls, as designed and implemented, are effective?.
1information systemr An  is a discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing,
maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information [OMB A-130].
2organization The term  describes an entity of any size, complexity, or positioning within an organizational structure
(e.g., a federal agency or, as appropriate, any of its operational elements).
3information securitysecurity The two terms  and  are used synonymously in this publication.
4security privacy controls [OMB A-130] defines and .
5 Controls provide safeguards and countermeasures in systems security and privacy engineering processes to reduce
risk during the system development life cycle.
6 Organizational operations include mission, functions, image, and reputation.
7 Security and privacy control effectiveness addresses the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly,
operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the designated security and
privacy requirements [SP 800-53A].
CHAPTER ONE  PAGE1