CM-12 INFORMATION LOCATION
Control:
Assignment: organization-defined informationa.Identify and document the location of [] and
hthe specific system components on which the information is processed and stored;
b.Identify and document the users who have access to the system and system components  u
lwhere the information is processed and stored; and ic
c.Document changes to the location (i.e., system or system components) where the
iinformation is processed and stored. s
aDiscussion:  Information location addresses the need to understand where information is being
processed and stored. Information location includes identifying where specific information types b
and information reside in system components and how information is being processed so that
information flow can be understood and adequate protection and policy management provided e
for such information and system components. The security category of the information is also a f
hfactor in determining the controls necessary to protect the information and the system
gFIPS 199). The location of the information and component where the information resides (see
fsystem components is also a factor in the architecture and design of the system (see SA-4, SA-8,
SA-17).
tRelated Controls:  AC-2, AC-3, AC-4, AC-6, AC-23, CM-8, PM-5, RA-2, SA-4, SA-8, SA-17, SC-4, SC-
:16, SC-28, SI-4, SI-7./ /
iControl Enhancements: .
|1 (1) INFORMATION LOCATION  AUTOMATED TOOLS TO SUPPORT INFORMATION LOCATION
Assignment: organization-defined information by Use automated tools to identify [0
8information typeAssignment: organization-defined system components] on [] to ensure
controls are in place to protect organizational information and individual privacy. I
Discussion:  The use of automated tools helps to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of .
the information location capability implemented within the system. Automation also helps
organizations manage the data produced during information location activities and share
5such information across the organization. The output of automated information location
5tools can be used to guide and inform system architecture and design decisions.
Related Controls:  None.
References:  [FIPS 199], [SP 800-60-1], [SP 800-60-2].