2.4SECURITYANDPRIVACYCONTROLS t      i
isThe selection and implementation of security and privacy controls reflect the objectives of
information security and privacy programs and how those programs manage their respective a
risks. Depending on the circumstances, these objectives and risks can be independent or b
overlapping. Federal information security programs are responsible for protecting information
and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or e
fdestruction (i.e., unauthorized activity or system behavior) to provide confidentiality, integrity,
and availability. Those programs are also responsible for managing security risk and for ensuring a
ecompliance with applicable security requirements. Federal privacy programs are responsible for
omanaging risks to individuals associated with the creation, collection, use, processing, storage,
:maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, or disposal (collectively referred to as “processing”) of
t28 When a system PII and for ensuring compliance with applicable privacy requirements.p
/processes PII, the information security program and the privacy program have a shared /
responsibility for managing the security risks for the PII in the system. Due to this overlap in i.
gresponsibilities, the controls that organizations select to manage these security risks will
0generally be the same regardless of their designation as security or privacy controls in control
baselines or program or system plans.
SThere also may be circumstances in which the selection and/or implementation of the control or
Scontrol enhancement affects the ability of a program to achieve its objectives and manage its
respective risks. The control discussion section may highlight specific security and/or privacy 8
considerations so that organizations can take these considerations into account as they -
determine the most effective method to implement the control. However, these considerations r
are not exhaustive.
(Content of Audit Records) to support For example, an organization might select AU-3
monitoring for unauthorized access to an information asset that does not include PII. Since the
28 Privacy programs may also choose to consider the risks to individuals that may arise from their interactions with
information systems, where the processing of personally identifiable information may be less impactful than the
effect that the system has on individuals’ behavior or activities. Such effects would constitute risks to individual
autonomy, and organizations may need to take steps to manage those risks in addition to information security and
privacy risks.
CHAPTER TWO  PAGE 13