SC-2 SEPARATION OF SYSTEM AND USER FUNCTIONALITY
Control:  Separate user functionality, including user interface services, from system management
functionality.
Discussion:  System management functionality includes functions that are necessary to
administer databases, network components, workstations, or servers. These functions typically
require privileged user access. The separation of user functions from system management
functions is physical or logical. Organizations may separate system management functions from
user functions by using different computers, instances of operating systems, central processing
units, or network addresses; by employing virtualization techniques; or some combination of
these or other methods. Separation of system management functions from user functions
includes web administrative interfaces that employ separate authentication methods for users of
any other system resources. Separation of system and user functions may include isolating
hadministrative interfaces on different domains and with additional access controls. The
separation of system and user functionality can be achieved by applying the systems security p
bSA-8, including SA-8(1), SA-8(3), SA-8(4), SA-8(10), SA-8(12), SA-engineering design principles in
a8(13), SA-8(14), and SA-8(18).
Related Controls:  AC-6, SA-4, SA-8, SC-3, SC-7, SC-22, SC-32, SC-39.
vControl Enhancements:
b|- (1) SEPARATION OF SYSTEM AND USER FUNCTIONALITY  INTERFACES FOR NONPRIVILEGED USERS
Prevent the presentation of system management functionality at interfaces to non-r
privileged users.
cDiscussion:  Preventing the presentation of system management functionality at interfaces
to non-privileged users ensures that system administration options, including administrator r
privileges, are not available to the general user population. Restricting user access also
prohibits the use of the grey-out option commonly used to eliminate accessibility to such  m
information. One potential solution is to withhold system administration options until users
testablish sessions with administrator privileges. p
/Related Controls:  AC-3.
o| (2) SEPARATION OF SYSTEM AND USER FUNCTIONALITY  DISASSOCIABILITYr
1  Store state information from applications and softwareseparately.
Discussion:  If a system is compromised, storing applications and software separately from 0
state information about users’ interactions with an application may better protect
Iindividuals’ privacy.
.Related Controls:  None. S
References:  None. 0