SC-37 OUT-OF-BAND CHANNELS
Control:  Employ the following out-of-band channels for the physical delivery or electronic
Assignment: organization-defined information, system components, or devicestransmission of []
Assignment: organization-defined individuals or systemsAssignment: organization-defined to []: [
out-of-band channels].
Discussion:  Out-of-band channels include local, non-network accesses to systems; network paths
physically separate from network paths used for operational traffic; or non-electronic paths, such
licas the U.S. Postal Service. The use of out-of-band channels is contrasted with the use of in-band
ichannels (i.e., the same channels) that carry routine operational traffic. Out-of-band channels do o
not have the same vulnerability or exposure as in-band channels. Therefore, the confidentiality, is
integrity, or availability compromises of in-band channels will not compromise or adversely affect
the out-of-band channels. Organizations may employ out-of-band channels in the delivery or i
transmission of organizational items, including authenticators and credentials; cryptographic key le
fmanagement information; system and data backups; configuration management changes for r
hardware, firmware, or software; security updates; maintenance information; and malicious
code protection updates.
rRelated Controls:  AC-2, CM-3, CM-5, CM-7, IA-2, IA-4, IA-5, MA-4, SC-12, SI-3, SI-4, SI-7. g
rControl Enhancements: o
--|(1)  hOUTOFBAND CHANNELS  ENSURE DELIVERY AND TRANSMISSION
Assignment: organization-defined controlsAssignment: Employ [] to ensure that only [s
/organization-defined individuals or systems] receive the following information, system d
iAssignment: organization-defined information, system components, or devices: [.
gcomponents, or devices].
Discussion:  Techniques employed by organizations to ensure that only designated systems .
or individuals receive certain information, system components, or devices include sending 2
/authenticators via an approved courier service but requiring recipients to show some form N
Sof government-issued photographic identification as a condition of receipt.
Related Controls:  None.
0References:  [SP 800-57-1], [SP 800-57-2], [SP 800-57-3].