1.1PURPOSEANDAPPLICABILITY l     e
This publication establishes controls for systems and organizations. The controls can be e
fimplemented within any organization or system that processes, stores, or transmits information.
10The use of these controls is mandatory for federal information systems in accordance with a
eOffice of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130 [OMB A-130] and the provisions of the
11oFederal Information Security Modernization Act [FISMA], which requires the implementation
:12of minimum controls to protect federal information and information systems. This publication,
along with other supporting NIST publications, is designed to help organizations identify the p
/security and privacy controls needed to manage risk and to satisfy the security and privacy /
requirements in FISMA, the Privacy Act of 1974 [PRIVACT], OMB policies (e.g., [OMB A-130]), i.
gand designated Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS), among others. It accomplishes
0this objective by providing a comprehensive and flexible catalog of security and privacy controls
to meet current and future protection needs based on changing threats, vulnerabilities,
/requirements, and technologies. The publication also improves communication among N
organizations by providing a common lexicon that supports the discussion of security, privacy,
and risk management concepts.
58 The Risk Management Framework in [SP 800-37] is an example of a comprehensive risk management process.
9 This includes risk to critical infrastructure and key resources described in [HSPD-7].
10 federal information systemA  is an information system used or operated by an agency, a contractor of an agency, or
another organization on behalf of an agency.
11 Information systems that have been designated as national security systems, as defined in 44 U.S.C., Section 3542,
are not subject to the requirements in [FISMA]. However, the controls established in this publication may be selected
for national security systems as otherwise required (e.g., the Privacy Act of 1974) or with the approval of federal
officials exercising policy authority over such systems. [CNSSP 22] and [CNSSI 1253] provide guidance for national
security systems. [DODI 8510.01] provides guidance for the Department of Defense.
12 While the controls established in this publication are mandatory for federal information systems and organizations,
other organizations such as state, local, and tribal governments as well as private sector organizations are encouraged
to consider using these guidelines, as appropriate. See [SP 800-53B] for federal control baselines.
CHAPTER ONE  PAGE2