MA-2 CONTROLLED MAINTENANCE
Control:
a.Schedule, document, and review records of maintenance, repair, and replacement on
system components in accordance with manufacturer or vendor specifications and/or
organizational requirements;
b.Approve and monitor all maintenance activities, whether performed on site or remotely and
whether the system or system components are serviced on site or removed to another
location;
Assignment: organization-defined personnel or rolesc.Require that [] explicitly approve the
removal of the system or system components from organizational facilities for off-site
maintenance, repair, or replacement;
id.Sanitize equipment to remove the following information from associated media prior to  s
removal from organizational facilities for off-site maintenance, repair, or replacement: u
lAssignment: organization-defined informationi[]; c
e.Check all potentially impacted controls to verify that the controls are still functioning
isproperly following maintenance, repair, or replacement actions; and
aAssignment: f.Include the following information in organizational maintenance records: [
organization-defined information]. b
rDiscussion:  Controlling system maintenance addresses the information security aspects of the e
system maintenance program and applies to all types of maintenance to system components
conducted by local or nonlocal entities. Maintenance includes peripherals such as scanners, c
copiers, and printers. Information necessary for creating effective maintenance records includes
ethe date and time of maintenance, a description of the maintenance performed, names of the
oindividuals or group performing the maintenance, name of the escort, and system components
:or equipment that are removed or replaced. Organizations consider supply chain-related risks
tassociated with replacement components for systems. p
/Related Controls:  CM-2,  CM-3, CM-4, CM-5, CM-8, MA-4, MP-6, PE-16, SI-2, SR-3, SR-4, SR-11.  d
Control Enhancements:
0| (1) CONTROLLED MAINTENANCE  RECORD CONTENT
[Withdrawn: Incorporated into MA-2.] 2
| I(2) CONTROLLED MAINTENANCE  AUTOMATED MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES
.(a)Schedule, conduct, and document maintenance, repair, and replacement actions for  S
Assignment: organization-defined automated mechanismsthe system using []; and .
0(b)Produce up-to date, accurate, and complete records of all maintenance, repair, and
3replacement actions requested, scheduled, in process, and completed.
Discussion:  The use of automated mechanisms to manage and control system maintenance
programs and activities helps to ensure the generation of timely, accurate, complete, and
consistent maintenance records.
Related Controls:  MA-3.
References:  [OMB A-130], [IR 8023].