THEFUNDAMENTALS
STRUCTURE, TYPE, AND ORGANIZATION OF SECURITY AND PRIVACY CONTROLS
This chapter presents the fundamental concepts associated with security and privacy controls,
including the relationship between requirements and controls, the structure of controls, how
controls are organized in the consolidated control catalog, the different control implementation
approaches for information systems and organizations, the relationship between security and
privacy controls, the importance of the concepts of trustworthiness and assurance for security
and privacy controls, and the effects of the controls on achieving trustworthy, secure, and
hresilient systems.
2.1REQUIREMENTSANDCONTROLS l     ic
oIt is important to understand the relationship between requirements and controls. For federal
isrequirementinformation security and privacy policies, the term  is generally used to refer to
OMB A-information security and privacy obligations imposed on organizations. For example, [
130] imposes information security and privacy requirements with which federal agencies must
requirementcomply when managing information resources. The term  can also be used in a
broader sense to refer to an expression of stakeholder protection needs for a particular system e
or organization. Stakeholder protection needs and the corresponding security and privacy f
requirements may be derived from many sources (e.g., laws, executive orders, directives, a
regulations, policies, standards, mission and business needs, or risk assessments). The term e
requirement, as used in this guideline, includes both legal and policy requirements, as well as an o
:expression of the broader set of stakeholder protection needs that may be derived from other
tsources. All of these requirements, when applied to a system, help determine the necessary p
:24/ characteristics of the system—encompassing security, privacy, and assurance.
rOrganizations may divide security and privacy requirements into more granular categories, g
depending on where the requirements are employed in the system development life cycle 0
capability requirement0(SDLC) and for what purpose. Organizations may use the term  to describe
a capability that the system or organization must provide to satisfy a stakeholder protection /
Sneed. In addition, organizations may refer to system requirements that pertain to particular
specification requirementshardware, software, and firmware components of a system as —that S
.is, capabilities that implement all or part of a control and that may be assessed (i.e., as part of 8
the verification, validation, testing, and evaluation processes). Finally, organizations may use the
statement of work requirementsterm  to refer to actions that must be performed operationally
or during system development.
24 The system characteristics that impact security and privacy vary and include the system type and function in terms
of its primary purpose; the system make-up in terms of its technology, mechanical, physical, and human elements;
the modes and states within which the system delivers its functions and services; the criticality or importance of the
system and its constituent functions and services; the sensitivity of the data or information processed, stored, or
transmitted; the consequence of loss, failure, or degradation relative to the ability of the system to execute correctly
]. and to provide for its own protection (i.e., self-protection); and monetary or other value [SP 800-160-1
CHAPTER TWO  PAGE 7