RA-9 CRITICALITY ANALYSIS T
Control:  Identify critical system components and functions by performing a criticality analysis for p
bAssignment: organization-defined systems, system components, or system services[] at
Assignment: organization-defined decision points in the system development life cycle[]. a
Discussion:  Not all system components, functions, or services necessarily require significant
protections. For example, criticality analysis is a key tenet of supply chain risk management and a
ainforms the prioritization of protection activities. The identification of critical system components
and functions considers applicable laws, executive orders, regulations, directives, policies, b
standards, system functionality requirements, system and component interfaces, and system and
component dependencies. Systems engineers conduct a functional decomposition of a system to e
identify mission-critical functions and components. The functional decomposition includes the f
hidentification of organizational missions supported by the system, decomposition into the
gspecific functions to perform those missions, and traceability to the hardware, software, and
ffirmware components that implement those functions, including when the functions are shared r
by many components within and  external to the system.
tThe operational environment of a system or a system component may impact the criticality,
:including the connections to and dependencies on cyber-physical systems, devices, system-of-/
osystems, and outsourced IT services. System components that allow unmediated access to critical
system components or functions are considered critical due to the inherent vulnerabilities that r
such components create. Component and function criticality are assessed in terms of the impact 1
of a component or function failure on the organizational missions that are supported by the 6
2system that contains the components and functions.
ICriticality analysis is performed when an architecture or design is being developed, modified, or S
upgraded. If such analysis is performed early in the system development life cycle, organizations .
may be able to modify the system design to reduce the critical nature of these components and
0functions, such as by adding redundancy or alternate paths into the system design. Criticality
5analysis can also influence the protection measures required by development contractors. In
addition to criticality analysis for systems, system components, and system services, criticality 5
analysis of information is an important consideration. Such analysis is conducted as part of
. security categorization in RA-2
Related Controls:  CP-2, PL-2, PL-8, PL-11, PM-1, PM-11, RA-2, SA-8, SA-15, SA-20, SR-5.
Control Enhancements:  None.
References:  [IR 8179].